Devx Newsletter, July edition (#4100)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/departments/engineering/teams/dev-experience/newsletter.md

To get started with testing out OpenTelemetry locally, refer to our [OpenTelemetry development docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/how-to/opentelemetry_local_dev) and refer to our [tracing for site admins guidance](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/observability/tracing).

If you are interested in learning more about OpenTelemetry in general and the specifics of the engineering work required to make this happen, check out [this recording of a DevX team Q&A about OpenTelemetry](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1z_Uf_Stp3frDKB_UXFtenbQJdYB4LikO)!

### Frontend news

**`esbuild` for faster frontend builds**: Shoutout to @Nick Snyder who took it upon himself to get `esbuild` in a usable state for Sourcegraph. It doesn't work for everything yet but a few people have reported a markable improvement in sg startup time! You can enable it by running `DEV_WEB_BUILDER=`esbuild` sg start`. For more information on `esbuild` please see [the following docs.](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/background-information/web/build#esbuild)

> **Documentation for analyzing the bundlesize check failure**: With more contributions focused on the core workflow improvements, the Frontend Platform team noticed an increased number of [bundlesize check](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/how-to/testing#bundlesize) [failures](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/runs/8094204910), and often the reason for it is not apparent. Valery added [a step-by-step guide for debugging root causes](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/how-to/testing#analyzing-the-bundlesize-check-failure) which should help teams to triage this failure. The Frontend Platform team will be looking into automating these steps entirely next quarter!

Reviewer: @jhchabran, I added one paragraph about [the FE docs update](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/41164) for visibility 🙂

> NOTE: For authors, refer to [this guide](./processes.md#newsletter) for preparing a newsletter.

## July xx, 2022

Welcome to another iteration of the [Developer Experience newsletter](./newsletter.md)!
As a reminder, you can check out previous iterations of the newsletter in the [newsletter archive](./newsletter.md).

## TODO idea: top N flakes disablers

IDEA: Shoutouts to ... who disabled flakes ...

## `sg` goodies

TODO jh https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/38012

**Build annotations, in your terminal!**: Ever wanted to check the status of your build in your terminal, but couldn't see those nice little dialogues (annotations) at the top your build showing that test that failed and other helpful links? Well those days are gone! When you check the status of your build with `sg ci status` it will now also print any annotation that is present on your build!

> TODO jh describe's @keegan stuff here https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/39231

Author: cc @keegancsmith if you want to add some stuff here before I do

Author: @kalanchan let's wrap this in SG for our pairing session!

> NOTE: For authors, refer to [this guide](./processes.md#newsletter) for preparing a newsletter.

> ## July xx, 2022

Reviewer: When do we want to post this update? I have a local branch that adds a couple more commands to `sg` for client integration tests + relevant docs. It's an excellent opportunity to highlight them along with [the updated documentation for E2E and regression tests](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/40715). 

I can create a PR tomorrow/Monday, what do you think?

Reviewer 2: I think we can wait for that to come in ? What do you think @jhchabran ?

Reviewer: @burmudar, @jhchabran, pushed a paragraph about it here [here](https://github.com/sourcegraph/handbook/pull/4100/commits/87d0d8a9531d3d29d665e7b1b3b269d0e7a0b64c)! Feel free to update it as you see fit 🙂

Welcome to another iteration of the [Developer Experience newsletter](./newsletter.md)!
As a reminder, you can check out previous iterations of the newsletter in the [newsletter archive](./newsletter.md).

## Frontend news

> **esbuild for faster frontend builds**: Shoutout to @Nick Snyder who took it upon himself to get esbuild in a usable state for Sourcegraph. It doesn't work for everything yet but a few people have reported a markable improvement in sg startup time! You can enable it by running `DEV_WEB_BUILDER=esbuild sg start`.

Reviewer: It would be nice to link [the documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/background-information/web/build#esbuild) we have for `esbuild` for people interested in getting more context.

Reviewer 2: Awesome. I'll add it!

> NOTE: For authors, refer to [this guide](./processes.md#newsletter) for preparing a newsletter.

## July xx, 2022

Welcome to another iteration of the [Developer Experience newsletter](./newsletter.md)!
As a reminder, you can check out previous iterations of the newsletter in the [newsletter archive](./newsletter.md).

> ## Development improvement <--- HALP, this needs a better title and a better place?

Reviewer 2: cc @jhchabran @bobheadxi

Author: ```suggestion
## Frontend news <--- HALP, this needs a better title and a better place?
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Frontend news
```
